How docker born?
Virtual Machine was taking lot of resources, couldn't handle much, so docker came


Docker Advantages

1. Memory
	Doesn't require much memory, there is no concept of OS, but VMs take lot of RAM

	In VMs, when you give 10 GB RAM for a guest OS, and when that guest OS uses only 5 GB, remaining 5 GB can't be used by Host OS, so it may affect host OS

	But, In docker, if you assign 10 GB for a container, if it uses 5 GB, it gives remaining 5 GB for host OS, then obviusly performance can be good with others


2. Performance
	Since it takes less resource on host, gives good performance but VMs takes lot of resource on host then become less performance

	Yes, bcz there is no unnecessary usage of resources
	Hardware -> Host OS -> Docker Engine -> Containers
	These containers are with light app OS apps anf binaries, it's not like OS, it's very light OS, does all OS functionalities with Docker engine help, docker engine takes care of talking to hardware


3. Portability
	Is good here, we can build our images and can create any no. of containers anywhere

	The same VM may not work properly in other place, but in docker all software will be packaged and can be easily deployed in other side, by running images

4. Bootability
	VMs take lot of time to get started in minutes, but docker containers in seconds





What is Docker?
So docker manages it's containers' OS level activities with Hardware
Docker is an OS level virtualization!!!
It's not OS but does all OS things with Hardware

Docker utilizes kernel to do all

Why you can't run Windows container on Linux based Host OS?
When you take the VM with linux kernel, will be able to run only linux related distributions
So if you wanna run windows container, need to install docker on Windows server, so matches with same kernel, since Docker shares with same kernel!!!




Main Purpose of Docker?
Is to Package and Containerize applications, ship and run them anywhere, anytime, as many times as we want wit less resource consumptions



On Hypervisor you can run any OS, why? but why you can not run windows container on Linux Host OS? but you can run Linux containers on windows, how?

Ans:

Hypervisor Arch:

{
[Apps, dependencies, libraries]  |  [Apps, dependencies, libraries]
OS								 |   OS

Hypervisor

Host OS

Hardware

}

So here each VM has it's own OS they don't rely on Host OS, HOST OS is just running Hypervisor, but Each VM's OS runs on Hardware since it has it's own OS
So you can run any OS on Hypervisor!

But in containers, there is no concept of OS


What is Docker Container?
Is a light weight software package that includes all dependencies (libraries/binaries) required to execute Apps




When you enter a command for Docker client, it sends to Docker Daemon via REST APIs, Daemon takes care of rest
Docker Host?
Here docker Daemon and containers present



Dockerfile -> images -> containers


FROM
Creates layer from a OS

PULL
Adds files from docker repositories

RUN
Builds container

CMD
What command to run in container







Docker compose?
Lets say container 1 has Apache Websever, container 2 has SQL, but i need both, so i dont need to execure those 2 containers, directly i can compose both and make it use


Docker Swarm?
If i want to scale docker containers and need high availability then we need to orchastarte it by tools, so here we use Docker Swarm

Docker swarm has nodes, each node has it's own docker engine

Manager Node
Worker Node

Manager node manages worker nodes


sri rapaka
sree mukhi
anusuya
and others


Rent?
Aggrement?
Paint?
Advance?
Rent
facilities 
noice?